db-version-policy.md, before:

---
Copyright:
  years: 2018, 2019
lastupdated: "2019-04-19"
---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}


# Database Versioning Policy
{: #versioning-policy}

{{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} allow users to select the major version for their deployments. We are committed to providing secure, up-to-date versions of databases, and we upgrade database minor versions when appropriate.

## Major Versions

{{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} sets out to support a major version of a database for 3 years from its release. If a database version is deprecated or marked end of life by the open source project owners, we will move to immediately deprecate that version on {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}}.

## Deprecation of Major Versions 

When a major version is deprecated, a six-month transition window is opened for current users of the deprecated version.

At the beginning of the period, we seek to contact users affected by the deprecation. 30 days after the communication, deprecated major versions cannot be deployed as new deployments on {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}}.

During the six-month transition window, users are able to initiate an upgrade to a supported major version. Existing customers instances will continue to run as normal.

Restoration of existing databases into new deployments of the deprecated major version is possible during the 30-day deprecation, although we recommend upgrading to a non-deprecated major version as soon as possible.
{: .tip}

At the end of the six-month window, we remove access to databases running a deprecated version and take a backup. The backup is available to be restored into a new supported database version.

## Major versions defined

Database|Versioning Schema|Major Versions
----------|---------|----------
Elasticsearch|Major versions are the first number in a `release.version.maintenance` version number.|2, 5, 6
etcd|Major versions are the first number in a `major.minor.patch` version number.|2, 3
MongoDB|Major versions are the first number in a `major.minor.maintenance` version number.|2, 3, 4
PostgreSQL*|Major version is defined by the first number in the version number.| 9.5, 9.6, 10
Redis|Major versions are the first number in a `major.minor.patch` version number.|2, 3, 4
RabbitMQ|Major versions are the first number in a `major.minor.patch` version number.|2, 3
{: caption="Table 1. Major versions for {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}}" caption-side="top"}


* There was a change of versioning scheme for PostgreSQL after version 9.6. Before and including version 9.6, a PostgreSQL major version was defined by the first two numbers in the version.

Commit message:

Version defs (#3)
* starting the re-write

* some initial definitions

* adding untagged version defs and working on minor version wording

* fix

* updating six-month language for version policy

* removing duplicate text

db-version-policy.md, after:

---
Copyright:
  years: 2018, 2019
lastupdated: "2019-04-19"
---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}


# Database Versioning Policy
{: #versioning-policy}

When you provision a {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} deployment, you can choose from the versions currently available on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}. You can find the latest versions from the [catalog pages](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog?category=databases), from the cloud databases cli plugin command [`ibmcloud cdb deployables-show`](/docs/databases-cli-plugin?topic=cloud-databases-cli-cdb-reference#deployables-show), or from the cloud databases API [`/deployables`](https://cloud.ibm.com/apidocs/cloud-databases-api#get-all-deployable-databases) endpoint.

## Version Tags

**Preferred** - The recommended and default database version for all new deployments. Its the version of the database that is the most up-to-date and stable in regards to both database-level and service-level features.

**Preview** - A preview database version is released for a limited time to try available functionality. Often it is the newest available version available from the database project maintainers in preparation for making it the "Preferred" version. While deployable, preview version are might not be suitable for production, as they are excluded from service-level agreements and support.

**Deprecated** - Once a new database version becomes the "Preferred" version, the old version is marked as "Deprecated". Provisions and restores of deployments that run deprecated version are still available and deployments running a deprecated version continue to be supported. However, you are encouraged to upgrade to the new "Preferred" version of the database as deprecated versions are eventually removed from {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} and are no longer provisionable, restorable, or supported. 

**Untagged** - Untagged database versions are fully-supported and deployable versions. They are usually slightly older than the current preferred version, but they are still supported by the database project maintainers. They will continue to be supported on {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} deployments until their deprecation is announced.

## Deprecation of Major Versions

{{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} sets out to support a major version of a database for 3 years from its release. 

If a database version is deprecated or marked end of life by the open source project owners, {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} takes steps to deprecate that version.

When a major version is deprecated, a six-month transition window is opened for current users of the deprecated version.

At the beginning of the period, we seek to contact users affected by the deprecation. During the six-month transition window, users are able to initiate an upgrade to a supported major version. Existing deployments will continue to run as normal.

Restoration of existing databases into new deployments of the deprecated major version is possible during the six month deprecation, although we recommend upgrading to a non-deprecated major version as soon as possible.
{: .tip}

At the end of the transition window, deprecated major versions cannot be deployed on {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}}. A backup of the deployment is taken and access to databases running a deprecated version is removed. The backup is available to be restored into a new supported database version.

## Major versions defined

Database|Versioning Schema|Major Versions
----------|---------|----------
Elasticsearch|Major versions are the first number in a `release.version.maintenance` version number.|2, 5, 6
etcd|Major versions are the first number in a `major.minor.patch` version number.|2, 3
MongoDB|Major versions are the first number in a `major.minor.maintenance` version number.|2, 3, 4
PostgreSQL*|Major version is defined by the first number in the version number.| 9.5, 9.6, 10
Redis|Major versions are the first number in a `major.minor.patch` version number.|2, 3, 4
RabbitMQ|Major versions are the first number in a `major.minor.patch` version number.|2, 3
{: caption="Table 1. Major versions for {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}}" caption-side="top"}


* There was a change of versioning scheme for PostgreSQL after version 9.6. Before and including version 9.6, a PostgreSQL major version was defined by the first two numbers in the version.

## Minor versions

{{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} is committed to providing secure, up-to-date versions of databases. As updates are released by database project maintainers, they are tested, evaluated, and released to {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} deployments. Your deployment's minor version and patch updates are handled automatically and are not user configurable.
