reference-key-protect.md, before:

---
copyright:
  years: 2019
lastupdated: "2019-05-09"

subcollection: cloud-databases

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:screen: .screen}
{:tip: .tip}

# Key Protect Integration
{: #key-protect}

The data that you store in {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} Databases is encrypted by default by using randomly generated keys. If you need to control the encryption keys, you can use [{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicelong_notm}}](/docs/services/key-protect?topic=key-protect-about) to create, add, and manage encryption keys. Then, you can associate those keys with your {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} deployment to encrypt your databases.

To get started, you need [{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}}](https://{DomainName}/catalog/services/key-protect) provisioned on your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account.

## Creating or adding a key in {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}}

Navigate to your instance of {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} and [generate or enter a key](/docs/services/key-protect?topic=key-protect-getting-started-tutorial).

## Granting service authorization

Authorize {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} for use with {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} deployments:

1. Open your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} dashboard.
2. From the menu bar, click **Manage** &gt; **Access (IAM)**.
3. In the side navigation, click **Authorizations**.
4. Click **Create**.
5. In the **Source service** menu, select the service of the deployment. For example, **Databases for PostgreSQL** or **Messages for RabbitMQ**
6. In the **Source service instance** menu, select **All service instances**.
7. In the **Target service** menu, select **Key Protect**.
8. In the **Target service instance** menu, select the service instance to authorize.
9. Enable the **Reader** role.
10. Click **Authorize**.

## Using the Key Protect Key

Once you grant your {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} deployments permission to use your keys, you supply the [key name or CRN](/docs/services/key-protect?topic=key-protect-view-keys) when you provision a deployment. The deployment uses your encryption key to encrypt your data.

If you provision a deployment through the CLI or API, the key protect key needs to be identified by its full CRN, not just its ID. A key protect CRN is in the format `crn:v1:<...>:key:<id>`.
{: .tip}

## Removing keys and deleting your data

Caution - If you delete the key that is used to encrypt your service, you lose access to the data. You will not be able to recover the data from the live deployment. You might be able recover the database by restoring a backup into a new deployment.

If you want to securely delete your data, you must delete both the deployment and remove the Key Protect key.

Commit message:

Cryptoshredding info! (#27)
* adding blurb to key protect about cryptoshredding

* key protect edits

* adding in soft-deletion and key info

* updating wording after feedback

* updating date updated and search keywords

reference-key-protect.md, after:

---
copyright:
  years: 2019, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-03-26"

subcollection: cloud-databases, bring you own key, byok, cryptoshredding

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:screen: .screen}
{:tip: .tip}
{:important: .important}

# Key Protect Integration
{: #key-protect}

The data that you store in {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} Databases is encrypted by default by using randomly generated keys. If you need to control the encryption keys, you can use [{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicelong_notm}}](/docs/services/key-protect?topic=key-protect-integrate-services) to create, add, and manage encryption keys. Then, you can associate those keys with your {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} deployment to encrypt your databases.

To get started, you need [{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}}](https://{DomainName}/catalog/services/key-protect) provisioned on your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account.

## Creating or adding a key in {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}}

Navigate to your instance of {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} and [generate or enter a key](/docs/services/key-protect?topic=key-protect-getting-started-tutorial).

## Granting service authorization

Authorize {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} for use with {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} deployments:

1. Open your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} dashboard.
2. From the menu bar, click **Manage** &gt; **Access (IAM)**.
3. In the side navigation, click **Authorizations**.
4. Click **Create**.
5. In the **Source service** menu, select the service of the deployment. For example, **Databases for PostgreSQL** or **Messages for RabbitMQ**
6. In the **Source service instance** menu, select **All service instances**.
7. In the **Target service** menu, select **Key Protect**.
8. In the **Target service instance** menu, select the service instance to authorize.
9. Enable the **Reader** role.
10. Click **Authorize**.

## Using the Key Protect Key

Once you grant your {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} deployments permission to use your keys, you supply the [key name or CRN](/docs/services/key-protect?topic=key-protect-view-keys) when you provision a deployment. The deployment uses your encryption key to encrypt your data.

If you provision a deployment through the CLI or API, the key protect key needs to be identified by its full CRN, not just its ID. A key protect CRN is in the format `crn:v1:<...>:key:<id>`.
{: .tip}

## Deleting the Deployment

If you delete a deployment that is protected with a Key Protect key, the deployment remains registered against the key for the duration of the soft-deletion period (up to 9 days). If you need to delete the key in the soft-deletion period, you have to [force delete](/docs/key-protect?topic=key-protect-delete-keys) the key. After the soft-deletion period the key can be deleted without the force. You can check the [association between the key and your deployment](/docs/services/key-protect?topic=key-protect-view-protected-resources) to determine when you can delete the key.

## Cryptoshredding

Cryptoshredding is a destructive action. Once the key is deleted your data is unrecoverable.
{: #important}

{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} allows you to [initiate a force delete](/docs/key-protect?topic=key-protect-delete-keys) of a key that is in use by {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} services, including your {{site.data.keyword.databases-for}} deployments. This action is called cryptoshredding. Deleting a key that is in use on your deployment locks the disks containing your data and disables your deployment. You are still able to access the UI and some metadata such as security settings in the UI, CLI, and API but you are not able to access any of the databases or data contained within them. Key deletion is [sent to the LogDNA Activity Tracker](/docs/key-protect?topic=key-protect-at-events) as `kms.secrets.delete`.
